Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo.
And in today's tutorial, we will be carrying a map and we will learn how to work with hierarchies.
Now, if you recall, the first time we created a map was in the very first section of the course.
That time would create a map of the US.
And we kind of analyzed how a certain store was performing across the different states of the U.S..
Today, we'll be working with a map of Europe and we will spend much more time on it so that we can
understand exactly how to work geographical data and tableau.
So let's get straight to it.
First thing we're going to do is we're going to save a workbook because we didn't do that last time.
So we'll click save as Section four.
There we go.
And now we're going to start by creating our first hierarchy.
And why do we need a hierarchy?
Well, that is because we have certain elements of geographical information in our data that we need
to tell Tablo how they work together.
And let's have a look at that.
So here on the left in the dimensions, you can see right away that some fields have been picked up
as geographical data.
And the globe represents that.
Some fields have been picked up as text and some fields have been picked up as date.
And so here we have three elements of geographical data that Tableau recognizes.
It's the city, the country and the state.
No region is also an element of geographical data.
It's north, south, central or west or east Europe.
But in this case, Tablo doesn't have that geographical or that level of geographical information or
that layer.
So in this case, Tablo doesn't recognize it.
And that's OK for us because it's sufficient for us to work with these three.
Now, at the same time, these are all elements of geographical information.
But we also know that a city can only be in one country, a country can only be in one state.
So therefore, there is a hierarchy and natural hierarchy there.
And we have to show Tablo how it works.
And Tablo is already prompting us to create a hierarchy here.
And we can go ahead with that.
But for now, we'll just delete this hierarchy that Tablo has prompted for us and we'll create our own.
So we'll just click remove hierarchy and now we will start by carrying out.
The easiest way to do it is to take any of the elements, let's say, city, and drag it on to its parent
element.
So in this case, country.
And so now we will is tablas prompting us to create a hierarchy called country city.
But we'll just call it geography because we know that we will add more into this hierarchy just now.
So if we do that right away, you can see that country and city have been moved into this hierarchy
separately away from the rest of the dimensions.
So now if we take state and we also move it in here, we can put them in between, put in between.
We can put it anywhere.
But we know that state goes between country and city.
So that's where we will put it.
And now we have create a national hierarchy, um, for us to work with going forward.
And so now what we can do is we can take country and we can drag it into our workspace.
And once we've done that right away, you can see a map of Europe has appeared.
So I'll just make this smaller so that we can zoom in a little bit.
So a map of Europe has appeared and the dots represent the countries that are in our data set.
So there's a United Kingdom, Germany, Norway and so on.
Now you can also see this little plus sign and the plus sign appears because there is a hierarchy that
Tableau knows about, the one that we just created, and it knows that it can drill into the data further
and that's why it's allowing us to do that.
So if we click the plus sign right away, you can see that instead of a dot for every country now we
have a dot for every state.
So let's zoom in to France, for instance.
And you can see here that in every single state of France, there is a dot.
And that's because we are looking at the level of granularity of state, and that's because we have
state, as you recall, whatever dimensions are listed on our worksheet, that's the level of granularity
that table is going to be looking at.
So once again, we can click this plus sign on the state and that will drill in further into city.
So now we have a dot represents the city.
So we have a dot for every single city that our, uh, that is present in our dataset.
So, um, there's going to be a lawyer.
There is literally my pronunciation might not be the best, but as you can see, there's a lot more
dots here right now.
And in fact, you can keep track of the number of marks on your chart or map.
As we discussed in the bottom left corner here right now, there's 1001 marks.
So that's quite a lot of data points.
And we can really start working with this, in fact, we're going to go back one step and we will leave
them up at the level of granularity of a state.
So we'll just collapse that.
And now let's go ahead and start working with this.
So what are we going to do first?
Things first is is always important to know how many if you have more than one year in your data and,
you know, because you got to be careful not to aggregate information from different years if you don't
need that.
So first thing we're going to do is we're going to take all the data and drag it into filters.
And we really know how to work with filters.
Right.
So, um, we're going to add it into filters here and we will just choose not range of dates, but will
choose years.
So next and let's say we want to look at 2012 to start with, OK.
And just as we did before, what we're going to do is we're going to create a quick filter show, quick
filter.
There it is, our quick filter.
So I'll just make the workbook a little bit smaller so we can fit our quick filter in.
And in this case, we obviously don't need all.
So what are we going to do is customize, show all value.
We don't need it and we will change this to a single value slider.
So now you can slide along and you can see how the data changes.
So that was the first thing that we wanted to do.
And now working with a single year, what we're going to do is we're going to create some colors and
some sizes on our chart.
So first thing that we're going to do is we're going to say that we want to look at how many sales were
done in every single of these, every single one of these regions.
So we're going to take sales and we'll drag it on to size.
And right away we can see that the bubbles have changed size because now they represent sales and they
look a bit small.
So that's an increase the size a little bit.
Let's take it to this level, for instance, and then we'll go to colors and give it a border, let's
say a black border, to make it kind of stand out a little bit.
That's good.
Now, what we're going to do is we're going to create a calculated field.
What we want to do and what was told in the challenge, what we were told in the challenge is to look
at the profit margin for every single state.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We need to create a field that will take the sum of profit and divide it by the sum of sales, and that
will give us a profit margin.
So we're going to right.
Click on profit here.
We will go to, um, create calculated field.
And here we'll call it profit margin.
We need some of profit.
So it's important to take the sum of all the profits for all the orders in that specific region first
and then divide it by the sum of total sales for that region.
Rather than divide taking profit, divided by sales and then taking the sum so it's important here to
first sum up all the profits, sum up all the sales and then divide one by the other, click apply.
OK, so we have profit margin now and now.
If we take profit margin and drag it on to color, what you will see is that the field here is called
Eigg profit margin, which means aggregate of profit margin.
Basically, it's telling us that this is already an aggregated field because profit margin is a calculated
field which takes which first takes a sum of profit and divides by the sum of sales.
So Tablo is telling us that this is not just a single value field, it's an action aggregated field.
And just kind of warning us about that next.
What we're going to do is we're going to adjust the colors and we're going to take, um, let's say
instead of red green, let's go red.
Blue will apply that.
And now we will say that we want a specific levels of profit margin.
So anything, um, below zero point five minus zero point five is already very bad.
Anything over zero point five is great.
So if we click apply, we'll get a chart like that.
And yeah.
So that's, that's pretty much it.
That's what we wanted from our map.
And now if we scroll around, we can see how the profit margins and the sales changed over the years.
And once again, if you put your mouse over any specific region or any specific state, it will tell
you the country, the state, the sales and the profit margin for that specific period of time that
you're looking at.
So let's go up here, because we can zoom out a bit because we've got, um, Sweden here, Stockholm,
uh, Finland and so on.
So.
We can see how they're changing as well.
What else you can do is you can highlight highlight things here.
So let's say you can do a square highlighting like that if you like.
But we'll talk more about this a bit in a bit when we're working with our first dashboard.
So that's just the different types of highlighting.
You have an tableau, so have a play around with that.
See what else you can do.
Maybe you want to not look at profit margin, but, um, some other parameter or some other metric of
how the regions are or how the states are performing.
Maybe you want to drill down to city levels.
So here right away, you can see we have many, many more circles and this is showing the same thing.
So basically the profit margin for every city, maybe you don't want to see that.
Maybe you can go back to country and look at individual countries rather than states.
So lots of things you can do if this map here.
And so I'll leave it at that for now.
In the next tutorial, we will create a scatterplot.
And then in the tutorial after that, we will finally create our first dashboard where we will start
combining worksheets.
So I hope you enjoyed this tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then, happy idolising.